# VGsalesDashboard

## Project Proposal

### 1. Motivation and purpose

_Our role:_ Data scientist consultancy firm

_Target audience:_ Gamers

_Our goal:_ To educate the next (and current) generation of gamers on the history of famous games and their platforms.

Gamers worldwide are extremely passionate about their hobby. In the past 3 decades, many games have been released, and these are in danger of being forgotten. Our dashboard preserves the history of many top-selling games over all platforms since 1980.



### 2. Description of the data

Our dataset contains information about the top-selling video games from the past 3 decades (1980 - 2016). There are 16,594 rows and 11 columns. Variables are described below.

**The following text was copied from the data source: https://zenodo.org/record/5898311#.Y-1wfcbMJH5 .**

> This dataset contains a list of video games with sales greater than 100,000 copies. It was generated by a scrape of vgchartz.com.
Fields include:
* Rank _(int)_ - Ranking of overall sales
* Name _(string)_ - The games name
* Platform _(string, categorical)_ - Platform of the games release (i.e. PC,PS4, etc.)
* Year _(datetime)_ - Year of the game's release
* Genre _(string, categorical)_ - Genre of the game
* Publisher _(string, categorical)_ - Publisher of the game
* NA_Sales _(float, continuous)_ - Sales in North America (in millions)
* EU_Sales _(float, continuous)_ - Sales in Europe (in millions)
* JP_Sales _(float, continuous)_ - Sales in Japan (in millions)
* Other_Sales _(float, continuous)_ - Sales in the rest of the world (in millions)
* Global_Sales _(float, continuous)_ - Total worldwide sales.


**Data Cleaning:**

In order to facilitate visualization, a few changes will have to be made:

* The `Platform` variable has too many groups to visualize. We will group this variable by company, as well as add an 'other' category (ex. PC, playstation, xbox, nintendo, sega, atari, other).
* The `Publisher` variable also has too many groups to visualize. We will group more uncommon publishers in this variable to be in the 'other' category, while retaining the popular/more industrious publishers as separate groups (aiming for around 8 categories total).



### 3. Research questions and usage scenarios

**Questions:**

* Which region had the highest video game sales across all years?
* What year had the highest video game sales (for each region)?
* How many of each genre did each publisher release?
* What platforms do each publisher prefer to release games on?
* Which genres are more often supported on each platorm?
* What are the top 5 best selling games for each genre? What about year? Publisher? Platform? Some combination of these?
* What is the distribution of game sales by region?
* What is the percentage breakdown of total games released per genre? Per Publisher? Per platform?



**Use scenarios:**

* In the year 3214, high schools will have implemented 'Gaming' as one of the core subjects. This means educators will need tools to help the students learn about the history of gaming. Our dashboard will be famous and will be used across the world.
* Games collectors may want to know which games are the rarest for certain consoles on certain years. Our dashboard will be able to help such games collectors.
* Suppose Bob is broke. He wants to know which games are the most popular for his Nintendo Wii from the year 2006, since these most popular games are easily found for cheap on eBay. Bob can use our dashboard to answer his questions.





## App Sketch and Description

You can find this in our [README.md](./README.md) file.
